I decided to explore the impact of the 1965 Immigration Act. This act is often accredited with being the main driver of increased US racial and ethnic diversity. The 1965 Act overturned many of the ethnocentric quotas that restricted immigration to the United States to essentially only Western European nations. I decided to test the thesis to see how the racial demographics of the US changed before and after the 1965 act to see if there was a large correlation between the act and racial diversity. I first decided to test the change in population percentages of Asian and Pacific Islander people (the former being a group that had been outright banned from immigrating to the United States essentially since 1882) from 1960 to 1990. I also wanted to see if US White Homogeneity decreased and tested the white percentage of the total population from 1950 to 1990. The general trend among both groups showed only a very small increase in racial diversity immediately following the act but accelerating change in the decade onward from the act. This indicates that the act did play a significant part in racial diversity, though the impacts of the act were not felt immediately, and implementation took years. The biggest challenge I faced stemmed from poor methodology in tracking race and ethnicity in the US census. I originally wanted to test Hispanics as my study group to test diversity but found that the US Census did not track Hispanic populations until the 1980s reliably, and to this day the census doesn’t count Hispanic as a separate race, so it was not really possible to find a data table that put White and Hispanic populations side by side. In the early years of the census, the US census also did not reliably track Asian populations, limiting calculations to certain ethnicities: Chinese, Japanese, and Filipino. These weaknesses not only challenged my process but also the results I published. What the US census marked as a certain race could be interpreted as a very different racial or ethnic group today. Something I read in an article about the census was that the recent drop in White percentages (2020 census) might be more correlated with increased census options rather than any actual demographic change. This shows how the US Census, even in the 2020s, still has much to work on as far as providing accurate and helpful data to researchers and the American public.  
